Van Gogh's Sisyphusesque Experience

It all started with the phrase "Empty Recycle Bin" while I was thinking about what actions in our daily life would be Sisyfusesque. Reading about Sisyphus's myth and Albert Camus's philosophy of absurd, what I was struggling with was the fact that I did not get that absurd vibe out of the story, in fact, I felt it should be some sort of wisdom hidden underneath its absurdness. What I believe is that his punishment was not absurd at all, and that is because, sooner or later, he will have a moment of realization which shifts his state of mind and expands his field of consciousness, hence he becomes more self aware. There are tons of wisdom that he could understand just by pushing the rock up the mountain and watch it rolling down. For example, he could acknowledge the importance of death and the reason why it is crucial that everything should have a beginning and an end (except The Creator himself), or maybe he could comprehensibly understand the true nature and effects of deceitfulness and craftiness, or self-aggrandizement. In my opinion, whenever there is a growth in something, there is no absurdness. Perhaps my way of thinking is because I believe in the principle of Causality, and the idea that advancing in the path of perfection to reach unity is the reason why human beings are on this earth.

Moving back to the project, the core concept this project was that how things become so absurd when they detach from their true nature or their truth. If van Gogh had 16 ears instead of two, his action of chopping of his ear would not make sense; or if there was no way to recycle wastes and trashes, if emptying a trash bin would have meant to just unload the bin wherever it is, then things would get absurd and loose their meanings.

In order to convey this concept and meaning, and accomplish this goal, for sure, the glorious JavaScript have been used, alongside the awesome jQuery and jQuery UI libraries. Due to the fact that my knowledge of this infinite universe of JavaScript and its libraries is extremely limited, I started by going through example games from Pippin Barr, a great ancient digital philosopher. I started learning how things works, and with the help of google, I’ve built up my project.

One thing that I would have loved to add to my game was to add another layer of complexity and absurdness as player goes to higher phases, nonetheless I could not manage to do so because of my poor time management. My Idea was to add Matryoshka doll effect to it; so, for instance, player collect all the ears and put them into the bin, and after passing a number of phases, s/he, then, would be able to put the hole bin inside a bigger container, and when s/he empties the bigger container, it goes all back to the ear level. As the game goes forward, the number of full bins start to rise on the higher level, and so forth till eternity.
